Hello and welcome.
Not much different here we're still moving around as we did before.
The only difference is that now on our player as well as our movie script we have also a play a controller
script and that player controller script.
Here's what's responsible for doing the right casting the movie script is what's responsible for doing
movement.
We've separated those two apart.
And I'll tell you about all the great benefits about this is such as getting a movement practically
for free.
So let's dive in and see how to do this.
So the first thing we're going to want to do in this section is the ability to click on an object so
that we can then targeted for our attack move towards it then play attack animation for the first stage
of that is going to be that control step of clicking on the object.
Now I'm going to just get us to visualize this in this lecture because we're not actually going to be
doing anything to do with actually clicking on the object we're going to be doing many refactor.
But I do want to be able to visualize it.
So in the sandbox level I'm going to go and right click in the hierarchy go to 3D object capsule and
create as a little capsule here.
This is going to be the enemy quote unquote.
And I am going to make it a little bit funny because I think this is a bit dull as a normal capsule
I'm going to make it kind of short and squat and I'm going to pop it over on the ground here.
So this is a short and squat enemy and while we're at it let's rename it to enemy rather than capsule
to make our imaginations really flow.
And I'm going to prefab it as well.
Now this is gonna go in the game folder because it is a designer hat type thing.
It is a prefab is create an asset created in unity in the Unity Editor and it's going to go into characters
and I'm going to drag it in there.
So we've got a player we've got an enemy seems to be making sense if we go ahead and hit play.
Let me just illustrate what I'd like to be able to do is hover my mouse over the enemy and click on
it.
And the moment I walk to that location but I would like to walk within range of my attack so stop a
little bit before like this and then stop beating the enemy up.
So how are we going to do that well we're going to need to do some recasting to try and find this component.
But before we start on all that.
Where should that code live.
Because as it currently stands this is a file it was deleted and you should have seen that whoopsie
daisies.
So as it currently stands and rate casting is happening here in the movie script the movie C.S. script
and the point is is that the right place for us to be doing right casting also for the whether we hit
something on combat movements is not the right place to do combat is it.
And this is quite shared logic.
We're going to want to do a lot of this screen point to raise stuff again.
So maybe this all starts to need to be pointed towards being in the same class.
So let's have a think about that how could this work by separating out A CONTROL lab at the moment everything's
in the movie.
But I'm suggesting pulling it out into something for example called a player controller class and that's
going to be dealing with a recasting.
Tell the mover to do the movement and then that's all good.
The benefit of this is that then the play controller can be used to drive things like a combat class
as well separately to move a class and also a great benefit here is that if we have an interface right
for the mover and for combat we can then swap out our player controller with an Enemy Controller and
sharing the exact same movement code the exact same combat code we are able to have A.I. control a character
so we can pretty much use the same code and really reduce our development costs and beyond this you
know you might have other components that are driven by the play controller but not the enemy controllers
such as special actions all of that is possible.
And it's a nice kind of separation of concerns.
So how are we going to do this.
What parts of code do we want.
Which parts don't we want.
What is a good interface to the movement class.
Well I would propose that a good interface to the movement class is something that just enables us to
move to a particular destination.
So if I hover over this the get component nav mesh agent if I select that you'll see a little light
bulb comes up next to my cursor and if I click on that light bulb I can go and hit extract method and
this pulls out a new method and I can rename the method to be something along the lines of move to now
as it stands this is passing in a hit.
I don't think that's quite right.
I don't think we should be moving to a hit.
I think we should be moving to a destination.
So let's just take this hit point out and we're going to pass that in as the argument instead.
So what's a hit point.
If I hover over it it tells me that it is a vector 3.
So that seems to make sense move to vector 3 is going to be about the right level of API.
And that's going to be the destination.
So I'm saying that interface in fact because it's the interface we're going to want to make it public
so it can be called from outside of them.
The class is going to be void it doesn't return I think move to the name.
And the argument is going to be vector 3 because that's the destination is basically the command we're
giving.
And I can go and set the destination of the nav mesh agent from that destination is pretty straightforward
it does a very simple job.
This move to and as you can see we're now calling that in our move to cursor instead.
Also what we don't want to be doing is an update of our mover.
We don't want to be checking our mouse down and doing this move to cursor call here.
So I'm going to comment that now I'm going to do that with a little shortcut for Visual Studio of selecting
that code that I want to comment and then bring control forward slash comments out all those lines on
Mac.
It might be slightly different.
Check out your your guides about shortcuts.
I think you can look at a keyboard shortcut reference from down and help and you will be able to see
what that keyboard shortcut is for you.
So basically yep we have been able to comment at that code.
Now the move is working as we would want it to work with a separated control there.
I'll bet that some extra code in here.
But nothing is currently calling move two and that's going to be your challenge to create something
that does call to move to.
And so we're going to create the player controller class.
It's going to call move to function.
It should work as before.
And bear in mind you should not forget to add your to your player prefab to the player controls should
belong on that root object same as moved to eventually combat will live there too so that it can get
hold of the mover mono behavior and it will be among the behavior itself not just the class money behavior
that will do all the querying for recasting and eventually called the move to function you might just
the moment you don't really need create any new code.
So it's just moving code around pause a video and have a go at this challenge OK.
Welcome back.
So we're going to create a new script to do this.
You can do it from the editor like he used to.
You can go to the editor and create new script and I'm just going to show you that you can do it from
Visual Studio code as well.
So we've got a scripts folder and we've got core we've got movement.
I believe that what we've got here is a new feature it is control and we're going to want to keep things
separate so I'm going to create a new folder here called control under the scripts folder and in that
I can create a new file and I can call it player control.
So yes like so now this is exactly the same as I I had created it in unity.
You'll see that if I go into my asset explorer and go down in the scripts folder you can see there is
a control folder created here and there's a play control see which is currently empty.
So it won't work I can't pop it on a character because it hasn't got the money behavior in it.
So the next step is to write the model behavior kind of boilerplate code.
And fortunately Visual Studio code actually has some way of doing this automatically called the snippet.
So if I start typing mono behavior you can see it's giving me some autocomplete options and if I hit
tab on that it fills out the mono behavior boilerplate automatically for me so I don't even have to
go back to unity if I want to create lots of scripts over here in Visual Studio code and that's cool
because one other thing that's done here is it's noticed the name of the C sharp script and it has put
it as my class name.
So that's a little bit of intelligence going on there as well.
Obviously if you've done it by unity it would have done the same thing.
I just sometimes find it easier when I'm in this context to stay in a visual studio code.
You might find that interesting.
Okay.
So the player controller First things first it's going to have this code the move to cursor code essentially
going to cut that out and I'm going to move it over in to this C shop script.
You'll notice it isn't currently able to call move two because it is doesn't have this method on this
model behavior.
We need to call to and get the move and move them on a behavior so we know how to do that is get components
of type mover like so Dot and I can join those two lines together.
So get component move a dot move to that makes sense it works then it's nothing calling move to cursor.
So there is that code I commented out from updates.
I cut that and we go and create up an update in our play controller.
Again there's a snippet for this if I type update I can tap complete and it creates an update method
for me and I can paste that code in here.
I want to go in on comment.
I think it's exactly the same keyboard shortcut control forward slash on comments the code and yet it's
working because this function is there is checking that the mouse button is down then it is calling
move the cursor.
So that's pretty neat.
Pretty straightforward.
Now you can see that move see sharp script is very very tight indeed.
Does not too much updates the animator.
It is responsible for controlling the nav mesh agent and the player controller is the one responsible
for doing recast and so forth.
And we will be able to use this to expand our rate casting ability to recast two components not just
to the terrain.
So I'm pretty happy with that.
Let's check that it's all working as I said I have to edit the prefab of player now Rick has been doing
that from the scene.
You can also do that in the new prefab Ed that is new in 2000 eighteen point three and you can do this
in one or two ways you can use a little arrow next to any of your prefabs to open the prefab Ed and
edit the asset directly or you can find the prefab in your asset hierarchy.
So in game characters I could open the prefab from here as well by double clicking it but I want to
show you the arrow click on the arrow boom we are in a special scene especially for editing this prefab
if I want to go back to the main scene there's little arrow just next to the player the top of the hierarchy
and that takes me back to the main scene I can do that for any of these prefabs go and edit the prefab
directly.
That means I don't have to apply any changes back because they've already been applied on the prefab
so you can see as is laid out exactly as you'd expect there's a little mini hierarchy in fact there's
another prefab in here I could then edit that prefab as well it's a different prefab that night soldier
is a different prefab we're not gonna be editing that though because it's in the asset pack and we shouldn't
touch things that are in the asset pack so we're just including a prefab within a prefab that's something
new that you can do in two thousand eighteen point three.
Pretty cool I think.
But anyway the point that we're here for is pretty simple we just want to add a script to our player
so I'm gonna go to the root of player where we've got our movie script and NAV mesh agent and add a
new component it's going to be a player controller component and boom let's go ahead and hit play can
hit play from this kind of prefab editing scene or use the scene I was last in and hopefully Yep I can
still navigate and move which means that they are recasting must be working and I move a script communication
is all hunky dory hopefully you didn't struggle too much for that challenge if you struggled a bit that's
absolutely fine and you had to watch the challenge that apps that challenge solution that's absolutely
fine too.
Hopefully you learnt something from what you missed out on that is a great learning as well.
Great stuff.
I'll see you in the next video.